# 实现 Promise

我们在业务代码中总是使用 `Promise`，可是是否有想过 `Promise`，具体是如何实现的呢？当然了，网上有很多实现了 `Promise` 的文章，也有相关的库。但是在这里
主要想自己来实现一个 `Promise`。

既然要实现 `Promise`，首先需要知道 `Promise` 的[规范](https://promisesaplus.com/)。

## Promise 规范

### 1. Terminology 术语

1.1 “promise” is an object or function with a `then` method whose behavior conforms to this specification.

> “promise”是具有 then 方法的对象或函数，其行为符合本规范。

1.2 “thenable” is an object or function that defines a `then` method.

> “thenable”是定义 then 方法的对象或函数。

1.3 “value” is any legal JavaScript value (including `undefined`, a thenable, or a promise).

> “value”是任何合法的 JavaScript 值（包括 undefined、thenable 或 promise）。

1.4 “exception” is a value that is thrown using the `throw` statement.

> “异常”是使用 throw 语句抛出的值。

1.5 “reason” is a value that indicates why a promise was rejected.

> “reason” 是一个值，表示一个承诺被拒绝的原因。

### 2. Requirements 要求

#### 2.1. Promise States

A promise must be in one of three states: pending, fulfilled, or rejected.

> Promise 必须处于以下三种状态之一：待处理、已完成或已拒绝。

1. When pending, a promise:
   - may transition to either the fulfilled or rejected state.
2. When fulfilled, a promise:
   - must not transition to any other state.
   - must have a value, which must not change.
3. When rejected, a promise:
   - must not transition to any other state.
   - must have a reason, which must not change.

Here, “must not change” means immutable identity (i.e. ===), but does not imply deep immutability.

#### 2.2 The then Method

A promise must provide a `then` method to access its current or eventual value or reason.

A promise’s `then` method accepts two arguments:

```ts
promise.then(onFulfilled, onRejected)
```

1. Both `onFulfilled` and `onRejected` are optional arguments:
   - If `onFulfilled` is not a function, it must be ignored.
   - If `onRejected` is not a function, it must be ignored.
2. If `onFulfilled` is a function:
   - it must be called after promise is `fulfilled`, with promise’s `value` as its first argument.
   - it must not be called before promise is fulfilled.
   - it must not be called more than once.
3. If `onRejected` is a function,
   - it must be called after promise is `rejected`, with promise’s `reason` as its first argument.
   - it must not be called before promise is rejected.
   - it must not be called more than once.
4. `onFulfilled` or `onRejected` must not be called until the execution context stack contains only platform code. [3.1].
5. `onFulfilled` and `onRejected` must be called as functions (i.e. with no this value). [3.2]
6. `then` may be called multiple times on the same promise.
   - If/when `promise` is fulfilled, all respective `onFulfilled` callbacks must execute in the order of their originating calls to `then`. 如果/当 Promise 被实现，所有相应的 onFulfilled 回调必须按照它们对 then 的调用顺序执行。
   - If/when promise is `rejected`, all respective `onRejected` callbacks must execute in the order of their originating calls to `then`. 如果/当 promise 被拒绝时，所有相应的 onRejected 回调必须按照它们对 then 的发起调用的顺序执行。
7. `then` must return a promise [3.3].
   `promise2 = promise1.then(onFulfilled, onRejected);`
   - If either `onFulfilled` or `onRejected` returns a value `x`, run the Promise Resolution Procedure `[[Resolve]](promise2, x)`.
   - If either `onFulfilled` or `onRejected` throws an exception `e`, `promise2` must be rejected with `e` as the reason.
   - If `onFulfilled` is not a function and `promise1` is fulfilled, `promise2` must be fulfilled with the `same value as promise1`.
   - If `onRejected` is not a function and `promise1` is rejected, `promise2` must be rejected with the `same reason as promise1`.

#### 2.3 The Promise Resolution Procedure

The **promise resolution procedure** is an abstract operation taking as input a promise and a value, which we denote as `[[Resolve]](promise, x)`. If `x` is a thenable, it attempts to make `promise` adopt the state of `x`, under the assumption that `x` behaves at least somewhat like a promise. Otherwise, it fulfills `promise` with the value `x`.

> promise 解决过程是一个抽象操作，将承诺和值作为输入，我们将其表示为 `[[Resolve]](promise, x)`。如果 x 是 thenable，它会尝试让 Promise 采用 x 的状态，假设 x 的行为至少有点像 Promise。否则，它以值 x 履行承诺。

This treatment of `thenables` allows promise implementations to interoperate, as long as they expose a Promises/A+-compliant then method. It also allows Promises/A+ implementations to “assimilate” nonconformant implementations with reasonable `then` methods.

> 对 thenables 的这种处理允许 Promise 实现互操作，只要它们公开一个符合 Promises/A+ 的 then 方法。它还允许 Promises/A+ 实现使用合理的 then 方法“吸收”不符合要求的实现。

To run `[[Resolve]](promise, x)`, perform the following steps:

1. If `promise` and `x` refer to the same object, reject `promise` with a `TypeError` as the reason.
2. If `x` is a promise, adopt its state [3.4]:
   - If `x` is `pending`, promise must remain pending until x is fulfilled or rejected.
   - If/when x is fulfilled, fulfill promise with the same value.
   - If/when x is rejected, reject promise with the same reason.
3. Otherwise, if `x` is an object or function,
   - Let `then` be `x.then`. [3.5]
   - If retrieving the property `x.then` results in a thrown exception e, reject promise with e as the reason.
   - If then is a function, call it with x as this, first argument resolvePromise, and second argument rejectPromise, where:
     - If/when resolvePromise is called with a value y, run `[[Resolve]](promise, y)`.
     - If/when rejectPromise is called with a reason r, reject promise with r.
     - If both resolvePromise and rejectPromise are called, or multiple calls to the same argument are made, the first call takes precedence, and any further calls are ignored.
     - If calling then throws an exception e,
       - If `resolvePromise` or `rejectPromise` have been called, ignore it.
       - Otherwise, reject `promise` with e as the reason.
     - If `then` is not a function, fulfill promise with x.
   - If x is not an object or function, fulfill promise with x.

If a promise is resolved with a `thenable` that participates in a circular `thenable` chain, such that the recursive nature of `[[Resolve]](promise, thenable)` eventually causes `[[Resolve]](promise, thenable)` to be called again, following the above algorithm will lead to infinite recursion. Implementations are encouraged, but not required, to detect such recursion and reject promise with an informative TypeError as the reason. [3.6]

### 3. Notes

- Here “platform code” means engine, environment, and promise implementation code. In practice, this requirement ensures that `onFulfilled` and `onRejected` execute asynchronously, after the event loop turn in which then is called, and with a fresh stack. This can be implemented with either a `“macro-task”` mechanism such as `setTimeout` or `setImmediate`, or with a`“micro-task”`mechanism such as `MutationObserver` or `process.nextTick`. Since the promise implementation is considered platform code, it may itself contain a task-scheduling queue or “trampoline” in which the handlers are called.

> 这里的“平台代码”是指引擎、环境和 Promise 实现代码。在实践中，此要求确保 onFulfilled 和 onRejected 在调用 then 的事件循环之后异步执行，并使用新堆栈。这可以通过 setTimeout 或 setImmediate 等“宏任务”机制实现，也可以通过 MutationObserver 或 process.nextTick 等“微任务”机制实现。由于 Promise 实现被认为是平台代码，它本身可能包含一个任务调度队列或调用处理程序的“蹦床”。

- That is, in strict mode this will be undefined inside of them; in sloppy mode, it will be the global object.
- Implementations may allow promise2 === promise1, provided the implementation meets all requirements. Each implementation should document whether it can produce promise2 === promise1 and under what conditions.
- Generally, it will only be known that x is a true promise if it comes from the current implementation. This clause allows the use of implementation-specific means to adopt the state of known-conformant promises.
- This procedure of first storing a reference to x.then, then testing that reference, and then calling that reference, avoids multiple accesses to the x.then property. Such precautions are important for ensuring consistency in the face of an accessor property, whose value could change between retrievals.
- Implementations should not set arbitrary limits on the depth of thenable chains, and assume that beyond that arbitrary limit the recursion will be infinite. Only true cycles should lead to a TypeError; if an infinite chain of distinct thenables is encountered, recursing forever is the correct behavior.

## 实现

相关实现在 `daily-study/demo-20220316` 文件下
